
# Get started

## Common apps (mysql, DNS etc)
Start common  apps like mysql and mailhog (you need those first):
`export MYSQL_DATA=/my/mysql/datafolder; cd /path/to/docker-compose-drupal/common-apps && docker-compose up -d`
Add this command to your boot-scripts.


This gives you
 - mysql:    1 mysql-container for all persistent databases.
             Available at `localhost:3306` and from your containers at `mysql` .
             Username / password: `root` and `root`.
 - mailhog:  This is a mailsink with web UI where php-containers will send all email to.
             Note that only containers started with the project docker-compose.yml from this repo will use this!
             Available at http://mailhog.dev:8025/
 - devdns:   This is the central dns-container that provides you the .dev domain and project hostnames.
             If this is not started, functionality from this repo won't work well (if not at all).


## To get DNS to work on your host / laptop, follow instructions:

### Ubuntu:
   edit /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf
   add:
      supersede domain-name "dev";
      prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
   see: https://github.com/ruudud/devdns


## Run a project
Copy `drupal-project/docker-compose.yml` and `drupal-project/.env` to your project.
Edit `.env` and `docker-compose.yml`.

Run `docker-compose up -d`.

To stop, run `docker-compose down`.

## Slow filesystem on OSX
Try to use `d4d-unison-sync` in drupal-project/docker-compose.yml .
Have not tested with it yet, so you're on your own.
Read: http://docs.docker4drupal.org/en/latest/macos/ .

## Fixing Permissions Problems
To avoid potential permissions problems between host machine and containers (e.g. can't access files generated by PHP) you can add a group on your host machine with ID 82, it's a standard GID/UID for www-data user in Alpine Linux.
Read: http://docs.docker4drupal.org/en/latest/permissions/

# Extra info

## PHP logs

Run `docker-compose logs -f php` from your project folder to tail the php logs.

## Drush, composer and drupal console

You might want to add these aliases to your ~/.bashrc file (restart terminal to take effect):

```
alias ddrush='docker-compose exec --user 82 php drush'
alias dcomposer='docker-compose exec --user 82 php composer'
alias ddrupal='docker-compose exec --user 82 php drupal'

# Note the 'up' alias adds a workaround to provide working DNS for each php-container.
# Drupal needs this for background_process support etc.
alias up='export DOCKERDNS=$(docker inspect -f "{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}" dockerdns); docker-compose up'
alias down='docker-compose down'
alias restart='docker-compose down; docker-compose up -d'
alias logs='docker-compose logs -f php'
```


